---
layout: post
title: "The Bible and coffee, what more could I want?"
date: 2005-11-14 19:04
comments: true
categories: coffee bible ministry
---

Tradition is a hot button issue for many Christians.  I&#8217;ve found that this is usually because some Christians have erroneously drawn a correlation between their traditions and their doctrine.  They think that their traditions are based on solid biblical teachings (which they are usually not.)  So, in their mind, to ask them to change their traditions is equivalent to asking them to change their doctrine.  It&#8217;s unfortunate that so many Christians can&#8217;t properly separate the two.

I write this because the <a href="http://www.christianindex.org">Christian Index</a> recently published an article called <a title="Stained glass & Starbucks" href="http://www.christianindex.org/1628.article">&#8220;Stained glass &#38; Starbucks&#8221;</a> that has got me thinking about the role of the church in society.  Is the church supposed to keep a death grip on its traditions even if that means dwindling attendance and a non-existent impact on its culture?  The answer is no, the church is to keep a death grip on Scripture and doctrine, and a loose grip on its traditions.

Not everyone agrees with me though.  In response to the above article in the Christian Index, Brad Waters, pastor of <a href="http://www.gracebaptistofmonroe.org/">Grace Baptist Church</a> in Monroe, Georgia wrote <a href="http://www.christianindex.org/1726.article">a response letter</a> arguing that <blockquote>&#8220;What the church needs most, now more than ever, it misses the least! And that is the power of God! We need preachers who will stand in the pulpit and preach the Word of God boldly and without apology&#8230;I just don?t understand when I hear that another church is canceling services. How do we expect to win them to Jesus if the church doors are closed?&#8221;</blockquote> While I&#8217;m sure that Brad&#8217;s intentions are good, it sounds to me like he expects non-Christians to come to his Sunday worship service just because he has one; sort of a &#8220;build it and they will come&#8221; mentality.    Now, granted, I don&#8217;t know what his church services are like, and I really don&#8217;t have anything against a traditional style of worship (i.e. hymns only.) In fact, I <span class="caps"><span class="caps"><span class="caps"><span class="caps">LOVE</span></span></span></span> singing old hymns, but that&#8217;s just me.  What I DO have a problem with is Christians who refuse to go out into the culture, interact with it, and get their hands dirty because they&#8217;re afraid they might get bruised.  People like Brad implicitly insist that the lost seek them rather than them seeking the lost.  Is that what Christ did?  Did He sit in the Synagogues waiting for the unsaved to find Him?  No, he went out to <span class="caps"><span class="caps"><span class="caps"><span class="caps">THEM</span></span></span></span>.  In fact, most of Christ&#8217;s ministry took place outside of the synagogue rather than inside it.

Don&#8217;t hear me bashing traditional churches, I&#8217;m not.  In fact, I am currently serving at a rather traditional church.  We sing hymns only on Sunday morning.  We have a choir (that is quite good.)  The music is usually provided via a piano and organ though sometimes we have a special performance with an accompaniment track (which seems to me to curiously resemble karaoke without the TV set.  Never mind.)  It&#8217;s not the style of the worship that matters, it&#8217;s whether the church is reaching out to its community is relevant ways.  I don&#8217;t know if Brad&#8217;s church is doing that, but it sounds like he would rather sit in his church with his traditions and wait for non-Christians to come to him.  I&#8217;m sure glad that the church I&#8217;m serving at, even with it&#8217;s traditional worship style, is actively reaching out to its community, not sitting and waiting.

Personally, I think the idea of Stained Glass mingling with Starbucks is a great one.