---
layout: post
title: "A minister without a minister's blog"
date: 2006-01-05 19:04
comments: true
categories: ministry blogging
---
I&#8217;ve been reading &#8220;Godblogs&#8221; ever since I started blogging last year with <a title="Blogger.com" href="http://www.blogger.com">Blogger</a>.  Back then I thought I wanted to be one of those bloggers who would write deep, insightful and convicting spiritual posts.  I thought I wanted to write about how the church in America needs to change, how Christians in general are no good at sharing the Gospel and how people who aren&#8217;t Christian need to become Christian.  But the more I read other bloggers who write about that stuff day after day the more it turns me off.  From my experiences the only thing these type of posts do is provoke a flame war.  This is why I don&#8217;t often write about the &#8220;hot button&#8221; issues rolling around in the &#8220;Godblogosphere.&#8221;  Instead I try to be more relaxed, welcoming and random.  (On a side note, perhaps that&#8217;s why my site isn&#8217;t as well known as some others.  It seems that in order to get recognized in the blgging world you have to yell as loud as you can from your personal street corner soap box.  Either that, or <a title="Dooce.com" href="http://www.dooce.com/archives/dooced/index.html">get fired from your job because of your blog</a>.  Though I suppose writing well comes into play at some point.  <strong>That last sentence was a gross understatement folks.</strong>)  Dan Edelen neither yells, nor has he been fired from his job because of his blog.  And though he may not agree with me completely, <a title="Link to Dan's post" href="http://www.dedelen.com/2006/01/godblogospheres-black-hole.html">he stated well what I feel</a> regarding blog debates:

> &#8230;more often than not, the camps just circle their wagons and pump a figurative QWERTY volley into the other camp. The end product is that everyone gets off a few stingers at someone else&#8217;s expense, and like Civil War re-enactors, after a day we pick up our weapons and trudge off the battlefield to go back to being mechanics, photographers, real estate agents, middle managers, and hairdressers.

While there is much merit in sharing and discussing ideas concerning Christianity, God and the such, is it really that profitable to beat others down so you can be &#8220;right?&#8221; Is our time really best spent flaming other Christians for their (minor) doctrinal positions with which we disagree?  People, we can do better than that.  We have a golden opportunity to show genuine love and concern to people around the world.  Instead of seeing how many people we can displace as we struggle to be king of the theological mountain, let&#8217;s see how high we can lift others in the blogosphere.  Instead of asking &#8220;who&#8217;s the best debater?&#8221; let&#8217;s ask &#8220;who&#8217;s the best encourager?&#8221;